.TH XCMCP 1 "2026-03-11" "xcode-mcp-suite 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xcmcp \- Xcode MCP CLI: build, test, preview, and REPL via Xcode's agentic coding bridge
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xcmcp
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xcmcp
is a command-line interface for Xcode's Model Context Protocol (MCP) bridge
(\fBxcrun mcpbridge\fR). It enables AI coding agents and developers to build projects,
run tests, execute Swift REPL sessions, capture SwiftUI previews, and take simulator
screenshots from any machine that can reach the Xcode host via SSH.
.PP
Xcode 26.3 or later is required on the target host. The Intelligence toggle must be
enabled in \fBXcode \(ra Settings \(ra Intelligence \(ra Model Context Protocol\fR.
.PP
Official Apple documentation:
.UR https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/giving\-agentic\-coding\-tools\-access\-to\-xcode
.UE
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B connect
Verify SSH connectivity to the host and confirm Xcode is running with at least one
open window. Prints each window's tab-identifier and title.
.TP
.B doctor
Full preflight check: SSH reachability, \fBxcrun mcpbridge\fR availability (local only),
MCP protocol handshake, and open window enumeration. Exits non-zero if any check fails.
.TP
.B list-tools
Print all 20 Xcode MCP tools grouped by category, with documentation URL.
.TP
.BI "call " tool " [json-args]"
Call any Xcode MCP tool by name with an optional JSON argument object. Prints the
result as formatted JSON.
.br
Example: \fBxcmcp call XcodeListWindows '{}'\fR
.TP
.B build
Build the active Xcode project or workspace. Exits non-zero on build errors.
.TP
.B test
Run all tests in the active scheme. Prints pass/fail/skip counts and failure details.
Exits non-zero when any test fails.
.TP
.B clean
Clean the derived data / build folder.
.TP
.B screenshot
Capture a PNG screenshot from the target host.
.br
Modes: \fBsimulator\fR (default) — booted iOS Simulator; \fBscreen\fR — full macOS display.
.TP
.BI "repl " swift-code
Execute Swift code in the Xcode Swift REPL and print the output.
.TP
.B preview
Render a SwiftUI preview for a .swift file and save it as a PNG.
.TP
.B windows
List open Xcode windows with their tab-identifiers and project paths.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-host " host"
Remote macOS host running Xcode (SSH alias or hostname). Overrides \fBXCODE_HOST\fR.
When omitted, runs against local \fBxcrun mcpbridge\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-scheme " scheme"
Override the active Xcode scheme (used by \fBbuild\fR and \fBtest\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-mode " simulator" | screen
Screenshot capture mode (used by \fBscreenshot\fR). Default: \fBsimulator\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-out " path"
Output path for screenshots and previews. Default: \fB/tmp/xcode-<type>-<timestamp>.png\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-file " path"
Swift source file for the \fBpreview\fR command.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit raw JSON output (supported by \fBwindows\fR and \fBcall\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XCODE_HOST
Default remote macOS host. Overridden by \fB\-\-host\fR.
.TP
.B XCODE_SSH_ARGS
Space-separated extra SSH arguments (e.g. \fB-i /path/to/key\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Check everything is working on a remote host:
.RS
.B xcmcp doctor --host collins-pro
.RE
.PP
Build the active project:
.RS
.B xcmcp build --host collins-pro
.RE
.PP
Run tests and fail fast:
.RS
.B xcmcp test --host collins-pro --scheme MyApp
.RE
.PP
Capture a simulator screenshot:
.RS
.B xcmcp screenshot --host collins-pro --mode simulator --out /tmp/ui.png
.RE
.PP
Run Swift code in the REPL:
.RS
.B xcmcp repl --host collins-pro 'let x = [1,2,3].map { $0 * 2 }; print(x)'
.RE
.PP
Render a SwiftUI preview:
.RS
.B xcmcp preview --host collins-pro --file Sources/Views/ContentView.swift
.RE
.PP
Call any raw MCP tool:
.RS
.B xcmcp call XcodeRead '{"tabIdentifier":"windowtab1","filePath":"Sources/ContentView.swift"}'
.RE
.SH USING WITH AI AGENTS
.PP
Register xcode-mcp-suite as an MCP server in your agent of choice:
.PP
Claude Code:
.RS
.B claude mcp add --transport stdio xcode -- xcmcp call
.RE
.PP
Or use the standalone proxy package directly:
.RS
.B claude mcp add --transport stdio xcode -- npx @kleinpanic/xcode-mcp-proxy
.RE
.PP
Codex CLI:
.RS
.B codex mcp add xcode -- npx @kleinpanic/xcode-mcp-proxy
.RE
.PP
OpenClaw (mcporter):
.RS
.B mcporter add stdio xcode "npx @kleinpanic/xcode-mcp-proxy"
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xcmcp/config.json
Optional per-user configuration file (future).
.SH SEE ALSO
.B xcrun(1),
.B ssh(1),
.B man(1)
.PP
Apple Developer Documentation:
.UR https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/giving\-agentic\-coding\-tools\-access\-to\-xcode
.UE
.PP
GitHub repository:
.UR https://github.com/kleinpanic/xcode-mcp-suite
.UE
.SH BUGS
Report issues at:
.UR https://github.com/kleinpanic/xcode-mcp-suite/issues
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
kleinpanic
.SH LICENSE
MIT
